---
layout: default
title: LogManager documentation
lang: en_US
pluginId: logmanager
---

# Description

Plugin allowing custom log management in your scenarios.
It is possible to create as many log as wanted, different log level are possible for each log file.
This allows you to organize your scenario logs according to your preferences, for example to group all the actions on a device in the same log whatever the scenario.

The logs are consulted via Jeedom's standard interface.
The purge of the logs is also managed by Jeedom's general config.

# Installation

In order to use the plugin, you must download, install and activate it like any Jeedom plugin.

# Devices configuration

The plugin can be found in the Plugins → Home automation protocol menu.

After creating new device, the usual options are available.

One device corresponds to one log, the name of the device will be used as the name of the log file.

> **Tip**
>
> In order to avoid potential problems, the name of the device must consist only of letters a to z, in lowercase or uppercase, and the underscore character "_", the first character must be a letter.

In addition, you can select the level of log to write: Debug, Info, Warning, Error.

# Commands

Each device (log) has a message type command per log level:

- debug
- info
- warning
- error

Just call the desired command with the message and the log will be written according to the log level configured on the device.

Depending on the configuration, an event will be generated by the plugin (only if the message is actually written in the log).
This event can be used as a scenario trigger, it is useful if you want to perform custom actions following a certain level of log:

- #lm-debug#
- #lm-info#
- #lm-warning#
- #lm-error#

There are also the following commands which have the same behavior as the corresponding manual actions in Jeedom:

- **Empty**: empty the log file
- **Delete**: delete the log file

# The widget

There are two options:

- either the contents of the log will be displayed on the widget, without the device commands.
- or a standard widget will be displayed with the selected commands (to be configured in the "Commands" page of the device).

The choice is made in the configuration of the device.

# Changelog

[See the changelog](./changelog)

# Support

If you have a problem, start by reading the latest plugin-related topics on [community]({{site.forum}}/tags/plugin-{{page.pluginId}}).

If despite this you do not find an answer to your question, do not hesitate to create a new topic, with the tag of the plugin ([plugin-{{page.pluginId}}]({{site.forum}}/tags/plugin-{{page.pluginId}})).

At a minimum, you will need to provide:

- a screenshot of the Jeedom health page
- all available plugin logs
- depending on the case, a screenshot of the error encountered, a screenshot of the configuration causing the problem...
